

1. A trigger is  action that performed in response to an insert update or deleteoperation is performed on the table.when an sql statement is executed these
   triggers are activated.These triggers are optional and are defined using the create trigger statement

2. Wrapper classe in java used to convert primitive datatypes in to object and 
    object in in to primitive data types.The classes in ja
   va handles only objects so wrapper classes used

3. string buffer and string builder both are immutable classes
   string buffer is thread safe and lss efficient but
  string builder is not thread safe and more efficient and faster

4. List and set both are collection framewok

   List: Contains duplicate elements
       it maintains insertion order
       allows n number of null values.

   Set: It contains unique items
      it doesnot maintain insertion order
      allows a single null value

5.   checked and unchecked exceptions
    checked exception:
    These exceptions checked at compile time 
    These type of exceptions can handle at the time of compilation
 
   unchecked exception:
   These exceptions are checked at run time
   These type of exceptions cannot handle at the time of compilation

6: statemnt is used to execute normal SQL queries
    prepared statement : used to execute parameterized SQL queries


  1. Both java script and javaquery are powerful web development tools and used to make interactive and dynamic web pages but diffrences are
   java script  -- it is a scripting language
                  it will used to make web pages more interactive and dynamic

 2. Bot Let and var both are used for variable declaration in java script the difference is 
   let is block scoped
   var is a function scoped
  var declared with var is defined throught the program as compared to let

 3. The selectors are used in css used to selct the content we want to style .That is applying colour to particular 
   element etc Both are used for selecting the element for styling

   id selector: represented by a name preceded by '#'
               id can be used to identify one element

   class selector: represented by a name preceded by '.'
                   class selector can be used to identify more than one element
                 

  4.Procedure and function is a group of sql statements which is used to perform a specific task
   function must always return a value but 
   procedure may or may not return a value



  5. jquery-- It is not a scripting language 
         and it has limited possibilities 
         java script is used to write the code for jquery 

8: Generics allow type safety by allowing types likeInteger,string even user defined tyepe
   mostly used . At the time of compilation it will check the type
   List<String> list = new ArrayList<>()
   allows string type objects


9 j ava 7
    multiple exception handling
    try with resource
   strings in switch statement
  
   java 8

   optional class
   lambda expressions
    method references
   stream api
   String Joiners
   Default and static methods in Interface

10. state management means managing the state of one or more user interface controls like text fields buttons etc.

11. JSTL : It represents Java server Pages Standard tag library it is a collection of jsp tags
   jsptag: jsp tags are essention part of java server pages a server side technology used for generationg dynaic web content
           tags in jsp create a container for java code.

12.  MVC:Model View Controller

     model: it contains data  is transfered to view by using controller
     view : It is jsp page or html page shown to user (ui)
     Controller : which accepts the request and send the response interface between view and model

13. @qualifier:
    when we create more than one beans of same type and want to wire only one of them with a property in such case we use qualifer 
    it is used along with @Autowired annotation to remove ambiquity

14.cost of shared in time of config?


15. Html 5 features:
    new function for embedding audio ,video and
    new input types like 
    date ,time,email 


16: selectors in css#:
    class selector  -- .class
    id selector -- #id
    element base selector --select element based on element name
   universal selector(*) --selects all elements in html page

17. Yes we can use jsp as a contrller.but for  simple tasks but jsp is slower than servlet which is used as controller.

18. Advantages of spring:
   it is light weight container because of pojo class implementation
   it gives good support to Ioc and dependency injection which is used for loose coupling
   improves productivity and reduces errors

19. Ioc container is responsible for creating the objects , configuring the objects

20. stand alone applicationmeans it does not require any services or internet connection to run .
   spring supports 5 scopes 
   single ton , prototype,request,session and global session 
   Spring bean is java class that contain variable and methods .
  






